Download Link: https://assignmentchef.com/product/solved-comp1012-assignment3-and-4
<br>
In this assignment, you are going to calculate the length and surface area of a solid generated by a function.

You should use numpy where possible to do all the calculation. You also need to write the code in a numpy way (vectorization) which  means you should not use  loops if it is possible to write the program without using loops with numpy and you should use numpy arrays instead of a lists.

You need to follow the programming standards for this assignment. You will find more about programming standards on umlearn. Please go to the course page &gt;&gt; Content &gt;&gt; Additional Files &gt;&gt; Programming Standards.pdf

You <strong>can’t use</strong> any libraries except <strong>time, numpy</strong>.




<h1>Question 1: Required</h1>

In this assignment, we are going to find the length and area under a curve. The curve that you will consider in this assignment is given by the (single variable) function              . So for each value of , we will get a corresponding y value. For example, If we have  values of , we will get  values for . Now, if we plot these values, we will get a figure like the one we showed here.

line and so on. As the two neighboring points are straight line, we need to calculate the Euclidean distance between the two neighboring points and then take the summation of those distances. For example, suppose the Euclidean distance between  and          is            , p1 and           is            , … … and  and

. So, if we have  points, the length of the

indicates the Euclidean distance between two points. The Euclidean distance can be

The surface area of the solid obtained when you revolve the curve  around the -axis can be approximated in a way that is similar to the way we approximated the length of the curve. We can approximate the surface area of a small part of the solid and then take the summation of those small parts to finally get the approximate surface area.  This can be compared to [frustums]

[tutorial.math.lamar.edu/Classes/CalcII/SurfaceArea.aspx]. Frustums look like the figure below.

<strong>What to do:</strong>

In your program, you need to implement the following functions. <strong>generatePoints(</strong><strong>):</strong>

This function will generate  points using <strong>arange</strong> function where  is the start and  is the end and  is the step.

<strong>evalFunction(</strong><strong>):</strong>

This function takes one parameter as input. The parameter  is an  array of numbers. It implements the curve function  mentioned in the description and returns the array. <strong>calculateSegmentDists(xx, yy):</strong>

This function takes two numpy array as input. The values in the  array indicate  axis and values in  array indicates  axis. It then returns the distances between each segment as an array. Here, the

segment means the Euclidean distance between the neighboring points.

<strong>calculateCurveLen(segDists):</strong>

This function takes segment distances as input and returns the curve length. <strong>calculateSurfaceArea(segDists, y):</strong>

This function takes segment distances  and functional values given by   as input and return the surface area for the solid. <strong>main():</strong>

The program will begin from this function. In this function, you need to use a for loop that starts at 1 and ends at 100 with step 10. Inside the for loop, you need to call the <strong>generatePoints</strong> function. The first parameter of <strong>generatePoints</strong> will be the value of for loop variable. For example, if we write:

here, i is the for loop variable. The second parameter of <strong>generatePoints</strong> function will be the value of for loop variable, i + 10 and you can set the third parameter, <em>interval = 1</em>. Then you need to call other functions inside the for loop to get surface areas and length of the curve for each iteration. For example, if the for loop iterates  times, you will get  lengths and areas. See sample output for clarification. You also need to print the values. <strong>printValues(starts, ends, lengths, areas):</strong>

This function takes a list of start points, end points, lengths and areas as input and show them in the output screen as given below.

<strong>Sample output:</strong>

<h2>“Programmed by…”</h2>

Use the following code snippet at the <strong>end</strong> of your script to print out the time and end of processing message:


